                        Samosa
Makes 8 samosas.

Ingredients:

    Dough:
          1/2 cup all purpose flour
          1/2 tablespoon sooji (semolina flour)
          1/4 teaspoon salt
          11/2 tablespoons oil
          1/4 cup minus 2 tablespoon lukewarm water
    Filling:
          3 large boiled potatoes, peeled and chopped into very small cubes
          1/2 teaspoon cumin seeds
          2 chopped green chilies
          1 teaspoon coriander powder
          1/4 teaspoon garam masala
          1 teaspoon amchur (mango powder)
          1 teaspoon salt
          2 tablespoons oil
          1/2 cup green peas (frozen)

Method

Dough: Mix the flour, sooji, salt, and oil. Add the water and knead the dough
for about 1 to 2 minutes. After kneading, let the dough sit for at least 15
minutes, covered with a damp cloth.

Filling: Heat the oil in a frying pan. Test the heat by adding one cumin seed to
the oil; if it cracks right away oil is ready. Add cumin seeds. After the cumin
seeds crack, add green chilies, coriander powder and stir for few seconds. Next,
add 1/2 cup green peas and stir until tender. Now add the cubed potatoes and
stir-fry for about 4 minutes. Stir in garam masala and amchur. Add more salt or
amchur according to taste. Let the filling cool to room temperature.

Knead the dough for a few seconds. Divide the dough into 4 equal parts and make
into balls. Roll each ball into 6-inch diameter circles and cut each circle in
half.

Take 2 tablespoons of water and 1 tablespoon of all-purpose flour to make a
paste. Spread this paste all along the edge of one semicircle. Pick this
semicircle up with both hands and fold it into a cone shape. Pinch the side of
this cone so that it is completely sealed.

Fill the cone with 3 tablespoons of filling. Press this filling down with your
fingers. Now close the top of this cone into a triangle shape, pinching the top
edge so that it is completely sealed.

Continue filling the rest of the samosas.

Heat the oil in a frying pan on medium heat. To check if oil is hot enough place
a small piece of dough in oil and dough should sizzle and come to the surface
slowly. The frying pan should have at least 1 inch of oil. Place the samosas in
the frying pan a few at a time. After samosas are floating on top of the oil
turn them slowly. Fry the samosas for about 3 to 4 minutes or until the samosas
turn a light golden-brown color on all sides. If you use a high heat, the samosa
crust will be too soft and not crispy.

Serve with chola, cilantro and tamarind chutney and enjoy!

Tips

To boil the potatoes, put the potatoes and water in a pan. Boil the potatoes
just until tender. Be careful not to poke the potatoes multiple times while they
are cooking, as they will get soggy. Drain immediately and keep aside until cool
enough to touch.

The dough has to be kneaded well; otherwise, the samosas will not come out as crisp.

If the filled samosas sit for too long, they will dry. To avoid this, cover with
a damp cloth.


