INGREDIENTS
    1 1/2 cups tepid water (105F to 110F) plus 1 tablespoon for the egg wash
    1 (1/4-ounce) packet active dry yeast (2 1/4 teaspoons)
    4 cups bread flour
    2 tablespoons malt syrup
    2 teaspoons kosher salt
    4 teaspoons granulated sugar
    1 large egg white
    2 tsp Baking Soda for water (if you want them brown)
    Sesame seeds, poppy seeds, or coarse salt for topping

INSTRUCTIONS:
    Place 1 1/2 cups of the tepid water in a bowl and dissolve the yeast
    completely; set aside. Combine flour, malt syrup, salt, and sugar in the
    bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a dough hook attachment. Add yeast
    mixture, scraping any undissolved yeast out of the bowl with a spatula.

    Mix on low until most of the loose flour has been worked into the dough and
    the dough looks shredded, about 2 minutes. Increase the speed to medium low
    and continue mixing until the dough is stiff, smooth, and elastic, about 8
    to 9 minutes more. (If the dough gets stuck on the hook or splits into 2
    pieces, stop the machine, scrape off the hook, and mash the dough back into
    the bottom of the bowl.) The dough should be dry, not tacky or sticky, and
    somewhat stiff.

    Shape the dough into a ball, place it in a large oiled bowl, and turn it to
    coat in oil. Cover the bowl with a damp towel and let the dough rise in a
    warm place, until it is noticeably puffy and springs back when you poke it,
    about 20 minutes. (The dough will not double in size.)

    Meanwhile, heat the oven to 425°F and arrange the rack in the middle.
    Fill a large, wide, shallow pan (about 3 to 6 quarts) with water, bring to a
    boil over high heat, then reduce heat to medium low and let simmer. Cover
    until you\u2019re ready to boil the bagels. Line a baking sheet with
    parchment paper greased with oil or cooking spray. Place a metal rack inside
    of a second baking sheet and set aside.

    Turn the risen dough out onto a dry surface. Divide the dough into 12 equal
    pieces, about 3 ounces each. (While you work, keep the dough you\u2019re not
    handling covered with a damp towel to prevent drying.) Roll each piece into
    a 9-inch-long rope, lightly moisten the ends with water, overlap the ends by
    about 1 inch, and press to join so you\u2019ve created a bagel. As
    necessary, widen the hole in the middle so it is approximately the size of a
    quarter. Cover the shaped bagels with a damp towel and let rest 10 minutes.

    After resting, stretch the dough to retain the quarter-size hole (the dough
    will have risen a bit) and boil the bagels 3 or 4 at a time, making sure
    they have room to bob around. Cook for about 30 seconds on each side until
    the bagels have a shriveled look, then remove to the baking sheet with the
    rack in it. Adjust heat as necessary so the water stays at a simmer.

    Whisk together the remaining 1 tablespoon water and the egg white until
    evenly combined. Brush the egg wash all over the bagels, then sprinkle as
    desired with poppy seeds, sesame seeds, or coarse salt. Arrange the bagels
    on the baking sheet lined with parchment paper about 1 inch apart and bake.
    Rotate the pan after 15 minutes and bake until the bagels are a deep caramel
    color and have formed a crust on the bottom and top, about 10 minutes more.
    Remove from the oven and let cool on a rack for at least 30 minutes so the
    interiors finish cooking and the crusts form a chewy exterior.
