For the dough:

1/2 cup plus 3 tablespoons warm milk, divided, 95 to 105 degrees (take its temperature--too hot and it will kill the yeast)
1 1/8 teaspoons active dry yeast (about half a packet)
1 tablespoons butter, melted and still warm
1/3 cup sugar
1 eggs
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/8 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon fine grain sea salt

For the cinnamon-sugar coating:

1/4 cup (half a stick) unsalted butter, melted
1/3 cup granulated sugar
1/3 cup light brown sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon

Place 3 tablespoons of the warm milk in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted
with the paddle attachment. Stir in the yeast and set aside for at least five
minutes. Place the remaining 1/2 cup of warm milk in a small bowl, stir in the
butter and sugar, and add it to the yeast mixture. On low speed, stir in the
egg, flour, nutmeg, and salt - just until the flour is incorporated. Switch to
the dough hook and knead the dough for a few minutes at medium speed. At this
point, make a few adjustments - if your dough is seriously sticky, add flour a
few tablespoons at a time. Too dry? Add a little bit of milk. Eventually, you
want the dough to pull away from the sides of the mixing bowl and become soft
and smooth. Turn out the dough onto a floured work surface, knead it a few times
by hand, and shape it into a smooth ball.

Transfer the dough to an oiled bowl (cooking spray works great here), cover with
plastic wrap and put it in a warm place. Let the dough rise until its doubled in
size, about 1 hour.

Punch down the dough and roll it out 1/2-inch thick on a floured work surface.
Using a 2-3 inch cookie cutter, stamp out circles. Transfer the circles to a
parchment-lined baking sheet and cut holes in the centers with a smaller cutter,
about half the diameter of the first--remember the hole will close up on the
second rising if it's too small, so make it a little bigger than what a finished
doughnuts would look like (alternatively, use a doughnut cutter, if you actually
own one). Cover the baking sheet with a clean cloth and let the doughnuts rise
for another 45 minutes.

Bake in a 375 degree oven until the bottoms are just golden, 8 to 10 minutes -
start checking around 8. Better to underbake then overbake here--pull them early
if in doubt. While the doughnuts are baking, melt the 1/4 cup of butter in a
medium bowl. Place the sugars and cinnamon in a separate bowl (or large ziploc
bag), stirring to blend evenly.

Remove the doughnuts from the oven and let cool for just a minute or two. Dip
each one in the melted butter and a quick toss in the sugars. Serve
immediately.

