Teff Injera- Becca’s home method for small batches

Yield: 2 ½ to 3 large (16”) pieces of injera

Active time: 1 hour

Fermentation time: 2-3 days

Note: Allow at least 24 hours total for proper fermentation. A ferment time of 2-3 days is better.



Ingredients:

  Step 1 (day 1):

  ½ cup injera starter (can use sourdough starter at first)

  1 cup water (use bottled or filtered water, or tap water without chlorine)

  1 cup teff flour



  Step 2 (day 1):

  1 cup teff flour


  Step 3 (day 1):

  2-3 cups of water (use bottled or filtered water, or tap water without chlorine)


  Step 4 (day 2-3):

  2 cups of water, divided (use bottled or filtered water, or tap water without chlorine)

  1/8 cup of teff flour

  salt to taste (optional, not recommended)


Method:

  Step 1 (making the sponge):

  In a large ceramic or glass bowl, mix ½ cup of injera or sourdough starter with 1 cup of water and
  one cup of teff flour. If you are picky about your sourdough hydration level, keep in mind that
  your hydration level of your dough does not matter at this point. 

  Cover the bowl with a damp towel or plastic wrap and allow to sit in a warm place (70-90°F is
  ideal) for 1-2 hours, or until mixture has doubled in size and is actively fermenting. It is
  important to wait until your sponge is light and fluffy with new air bubbles from the yeast before
  moving on to the next step. If you are using sourdough starter, your initial ferment time may be
  longer because the yeast will have to adjust to the teff flour. 



  Step 2 (making the dough):

  Once your sponge is ready, add 1 cup of teff flour, using a soft spatula to fold the dough over
  itself until it is no longer crumbly and holds its shape. You may need to add a little more teff
  or water at this point to get the right consistency. This mixing step is traditionally done with
  the hands, but a spatula works quite well and is less messy.  

  Cover the bowl again and allow the dough to rise until it approximately doubles in bulk. Since the
  dough contains no gluten, it will split open as it doubles rather than rising in a smooth ball. If
  it does not appear to have doubled, but it has been sitting for 3 or more hours and your sponge
  was actively fermenting, you can proceed to step 3. 



  Step 3 (soaking the dough):

  After the dough has doubled in size, it needs to be soaked to achieve the proper hydration and
  flavor. This step also makes the finished product easier to digest. Pour enough water over the
  dough so that it covers it several inches. Use a spoon or a whisk to mix the dough thoroughly
  into the water. Cover the bowl and place in the refrigerator for at least 12 hours, but
  preferably 24-48 hours. 



  Step 4 (preparing the dough for cooking):

  After the dough has soaked, the flour will settle to the bottom and a blackish liquid will sit
  on top. Remove the bowl carefully from the fridge. Pour as much of the dark liquid (“hooch” in
  sourdough lingo) from the top as you can into a separate container and reserve. You may need
  some of this reserved liquid later.

  THIS NEXT STEP IS IMPORTANT. DO NOT SKIP IT.

  Before cooking the dough, you must increase the hydration level by cooking a small portion of
  teff flour in water until it thickens. The starches bind with the water and allow you to create
  a moist and perfect piece of injera. Traditionally, a small portion of the hydrated dough is
  cooked in water, but I found that using a small amount of teff flour is easier and more
  accurate.

  In a saucepan, mix 1/8 cup teff flour with one cup of water and heat slowly over the stove,
  stirring often with a whisk until the mixture thickens. Allow thickened mixture to cool. Once it
  is at room temperature (or slightly warmer), mix it into the soaked dough. If the thickened
  mixture has lumps, use a strainer to remove the lumps before mixing it with the dough. 

  Once you have mixed the cooked teff with the dough, add the remaining cup of water and stir. It
  is best to err on the side of using too little water. You can always add some of the reserved
  liquid from your earlier ferment if you need to thin the dough later. 

  Cover the bowl and allow it to sit at room temperature for at least an hour (it usually takes
  2-3 hours, and up to 5, depending on the room temp), until bubbles form and the dough is
  actively fermenting again. You can leave your reserved liquid (“hooch”) on the counter next to
  the bowl of dough. This allows the yeasts in the liquid to continue producing carbon dioxide
  bubbles so that you can thin your dough at the last minute if necessary without losing the
  leavening power of the yeast.



  Step 5 (baking the injera):

  After several hours, your dough should be bubbly and smell a little like bread dough. It will
  be thinner than pancake batter. I usually describe it as slightly thinner than crepe batter,
  but I use pretty thick crepe batter. It should be soupy but not quite watery. 

  Preheat your pan or lefse griddle over medium heat. A pan on the stove usually works best at
  the 4 or 5 setting. If using a lefse griddle, heat it to ~250°F. If the pan is too hot, you
  will burn the bottom of your injera without properly cooking the top and you will end up with a
  sticky mess. 

  At this point, you will want to reserve ½ cup of the dough for future batches. Keep it stored
  in an airtight container in the fridge. I use an old yogurt container. 

  You can also add salt to taste at this point (after removing some dough for your next batch). I
  have found that with good teff flour, adding salt is not necessary. 



  Once your griddle is preheated, gently stir the dough and use a ladle to scoop some dough into
  your 3-4 cup pouring cup. You will use around 2-3 cups for a 16” piece, and it’s always good
  to have a little extra in your pouring cup. 

  Starting at the outside edge of your lefse griddle (or just inside the edge of your flat plan,
  pour a thin and steady stream of dough onto the hot surface. Working in a circular spiral
  motion, pour the dough to cover the surface from the outside inward. Finish at the center.
  This is important, because otherwise you won’t be able to grab the cooked edges to remove the
  injera from the pan. (Note: if you are using a flat pan with edges, be sure to leave enough
  room for the edges of your lid between the injera and the edge of the pan)



  Once you have finished pouring, you will see the eyes (bubbles) begin to form on the surface.
  Wait until bubbles have formed on all parts of the injera before covering. Do not wait too
  long, or the outside edges will begin to crack. Do not cover too soon, or the finished injera
  will lose its structure. 



  Cover, and cook for 5-10 min (depending on the size of the piece, the temperature of the
  room, and the relative humidity). You can check on your injera after 1-2 min to make sure it
  is cooking properly, but do not check too often, or it will dry out. If using a lefse
  griddle, you can spin the lid around several times while the injera is cooking to encourage
  the condensation to move down the lid to the outside of the pan. 



  The injera is ready when the edges begin to lift off the pan slightly. At this point, if
  you are using a lefse griddle, you can use the 16” pizza pan covered with a dishtowel to
  help lift the injera and slide it on to a waiting dishtowel on the side of the pan. The top
  will be sticky until it cools, so be sure not to let the injera flip onto itself. If you
  are using a pan on the stove, you can use a spatula to help lift the injera onto a waiting
  towel. 



  Now that you have a finished piece, you can assess whether it is the desired thickness. If
  it is too thick, add a small amount of reserved hooch to the remaining dough and stir. 



  Continue this process until you have used all of your dough. If you are using a lefse
  griddle, do not start at the exact edge of the pan for the last piece, because you won’t
  have quite enough dough to finish a full piece. I usually leave 1-2 inches free on the
  edge for the last piece. 



  Your injera may seem like a sticky disaster waiting to happen when it comes off the
  grill, but be patient! Once your injera cools, the top will firm up and the bottom will
  become softer. You can stack the pieces of injera while you are cooking, but you will
  need to separate them for storage.



  Properly cooked injera will have small bubbles and NO BROWN on the bottom. Remember,
  this is not a pancake, it is steamed flatbread. 



  Storage Notes-

  If you are serving the injera the same day, it is best to store it at room
  temperature. Stack the pieces on several criss-crossed pieces of plastic wrap. Bring
  the edges of the plastic wrap up over the edges of the injera. Cover the top with more
  plastic wrap and tuck it under the injera pieces. Punch several 1” air holes close to
  the center of the wrapping. This keeps the moisture from ruining your injera but also
  helps to keep it from drying out. 



  If you are saving your injera, it is best to store it in the freezer. Cold
  temperatures cause injera to crumble, but freezing is not a problem. Fold your injera
  piece into quarters and place in a 1-gallon freezer storage bag. You can put two
  pieces in one bag, but make sure to fold them separately. Reheat in the microwave 1
  minute at a time until warm (NOT hot). The heat will soften the injera and make it
  taste fresh. 



  Teff Flour Notes- 

  There are several brands of teff flour. I use Maskal ivory teff because it is grown
  sustainably in the United States and has a good flavor. For learning, I would
  suggest buying a bulk batch from The Teff Company (producers of Maskal flour)
  because it is the least expensive option. You can get 25 lbs for $65. )
