Spaghetti and Beanballs with Onion & Roasted Garlic Tomato Sauce
Adapted from Veganomicon

The first thing you want to do is start roasting the garlic bulbs, as this takes
at least 45 minutes. Then I'd sautee the onions, start the sauce. Add the onions
and garlic to the sauce when they're done. Meanwhile, start on the beanballs
(while the sauce and onions are cooking away). Once the beanballs are in the
oven, put on a large pot of water to boil for the spaghetti.

Serves 3-4

1/2 pound whole wheat spaghetti

For the beanballs
20 oz can (about 3 cups) kidney beans, rinsed and drained
2 tbsp soy sauce
2 tbsp steak sauce
1 tsbp olive oil
3 garlic cloves, minced
1/4 tsp grated lemon zest (optional, because I couldn't taste it)
1/2 cup bread crumbs
1/4 cup vital wheat gluten
1/2 tsp dried oregano
1/4 tsp dried thyme

For the roasted garlic & onion tomato sauce
28 oz can crushed tomatoes
1/4 tsp dried thyme
1/4 tsp dried oregano
1/4 tsp salt
Freshly ground black pepper
2 garlic bulbs, roasted*
1 onion, chopped
1 tsp oil

Preheat the oven to 375F for the beanballs.

Make the onion & roasted garlic tomato sauce
Make sure you've roasted your garlic! Now you have to squeeze out all the
cloves. It's your choice to add the cloves whole to the sauce, or mash them up
and stir them in (or do a bit of both as I did).

Take out a frying pan (for sauteeing the onions) and a saucepan (for the sauce)
and put both on medium-low heat. Put the oil in the frying pan for the onions,
and add the onions. Then start on the sauce. Add crushed tomatoes, thyme,
oregano, salt, pepper and garlic bulbs. Cover, and raise the heat a bit to bring
to a simmer. Simmer for at least 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. Once the
onions are soft and/or caramelized, add them to the sauce. Don't worry about the
sauce sitting for longer than 15 minutes.

Make the beanballs
Mash the kidney beans in a mixing bowl until no whole beans are left. You don't
want them to be completely smooth, you should still be able to recognize that
they are kidney beans. Add the soy sauce, steak sauce, olive oil, garlic, lemon
zest, bread crumbs, wheat gluten, and herbs, and use a fork to mix everything
together. Use your hands to knead the mixture for about a minute, until
everything is really well combined and firm.

Prepare a baking sheet with parchment paper, a silpat, or oil. Roll the bean
mixture into walnut-size balls. (My note: The book says you should get 12 to 15,
I got at least 20 and even then I thought they might be a bit big.) Place the
balls on the baking sheet as you go.

Put a large pot of water on the stove and start boiling the water for the
spaghetti. Cook the spaghetti, so it should be done by about the time the
beanballs come out of the oven.

Bake for about 15 minutes, until lightly browned on the bottom, then flip them
and bake for another 10 to 15 minutes. (My note: If you want you can fry them,
but for the sake of being healthy, baking is a much better option.)

Put everything together
Once the spaghetti is drained, toss it with the tomato sauce. Either add the
beanballs now and mix it all together, or you can dish out the spaghetti and
then place some beanballs on top.

