Golden Curry

40 servings...that's right. I said 40!

Ingredients:
for the roux:
*1/4 cup yellow curry powder (less if spicy, or more to taste)
6 yellow onions, minced
1 cup flour
7 quarts stock (beef for meat version, veggie and Bragg's Amino's for vegetarian)
2 cups reduced apple juice (begin with 4 and reduce to 2)
4 Tbls grated fresh ginger
4 Tbls fresh chopped garlic
2 Tbls garam masala
* 1/4 cup canola oil or clarified butter or combination

For Curry:
6 to 8 lbs stew meat, cut into large bite size pieces for meat version, or *2 lbs tempeh for vegetarian
*Splash of apple juice
10 lbs potato, or *14 lbs for vegetarian, peeled, cut into large bite size pieces
6 lbs carrots, or *8 lbs for vegetarian, peeled and cut into large moon shapes
6 lbs onion, or *8 lbs for vegetarian
(optional additional vegetables: green beans cut in half, quartered mushrooms, firm white parts of bok choy- green parts may be added to another dish, turnips, etc.)

Directions for roux:
Heat stockand juice in pot.
Saute onion in oil or butter slowly until browned, about 20 minutes. Add garlic and ginger. Blend in flour and curry powder to form roux and slowly sir in stock/juice mixture til thickened. Add garam masala last. Adjust seasoning as needed and add cayenne if a spicier roux is desired. Continue to cook over low heat, stirring ocassionally.

For Curry:
Prepare and cut all vegetables, meat and/or tempeh into large bite size pieces. Cook meat and/or tempeh in lightly oiled saute pan over high heat til seared on all sides. Remove and add to roux. Add a splash of apple juice to saute pan while still hot to deglaze and then add a few tbls roux to saute pan, then add back to roux pot. Add vegetables to roux in order of cooking time, begining with onions, potatoes, carrots, turnips (if using), beans, mushrooms and ending with bok choy (if using).
Reduce heat and simmer curry til meat is cooked, or until ready to serve.

Okay, so I've played around with this a bit and found that the addition of chopped apples, or better yet chopped rehydrated dried apples, gives it a depth of flavor not found in the traditional roux. Also, sometimes I add liquid "Bragg's Amino Acids" for the vegetarian version as it lends a meaty flavor without meat.

Enjoy! 
