Hi-Tech Veggie Burger

1200 g Black beans, about 5 cans, divided
350 g Water
150 g Olive oil
50 g Sodium Caseinate
50 g Activa RM
10 g Salt
2 g MSG

Rinse beans
1200 g Black beans, canned, about 5 cans

Open canned beans and rinse in cold water. Allow to drain thoroughly.

Spread half of beans onto baking sheets
600 g Black beans, rinsed, from above
Line two baking sheets with parchment paper, and spread half of the total weight of beans onto the baking sheets.

Dry beans
600 g Black beans, rinsed, from above

Place 600 g beans in a 347 °F / 175 °C oven until dehydrated to 400 g,
about 20 minutes. Most of them should pop open as their shells dry out and peel
back. (Worried yours look weird? Compare results to the photo below.)

Make bean paste
600 g Black beans, rinsed, from above
350 g Water
150 g Olive oil
10 g Salt
2 g MSG

In a medium bowl, combine remaining beans with water, oil, salt, and MSG. Using
an immersion blender, blend them into a paste. No need to create something
perfectly smooth here; the texture just needs to be pasty. Think refried beans,
but slightly thinner. When added in Step 6, the casein and Activa will thicken
things up considerably.

Make Activa mixture
50 g Sodium Caseinate
50 g Activa RM

Combine sodium caseinate and Activa in a small bowl and mix thoroughly.
Seriously though, be thorough. A poorly combined mixture can result in
inadequate or inconsistent binding.

Add Activa mixture to black bean paste

Add dry blend mixture to the bean paste and incorporate completely. Again, be
thorough-- this is the part where unwanted clumps sometimes form. The casein
and Activa will begin forming bonds immediately, so work quickly.

Add dried beans to paste

Add the dried beans to the bean paste mixture and fold them in. Take care to
distribute them evenly while continuing to work quickly.

Prepare a work station with plastic wrap

Spread a sheet of plastic wrap onto a clean surface, leaving the far end
attached to the roll. It should be smooth and wrinkle-free.

Poking holes to remove air

Use a sharp object such as a needle or toothpick to poke tiny holes anywhere you
see air bubbles under the plastic.

Mold into a cylinder shape

Place the bean mixture about five inches from one end of the prepared plastic
wrap. Gently mold it into a rough cylinder shape about the circumference of a
burger, keeping it as even as possible with flattened ends. Leave several inches
of plastic on either side. Wrap the near end of the plastic wrap over the
cylinder and tuck it in.

Grip the ends of the plastic on either side of the cylinder firmly, and roll the
cylinder away from you as you simultaneously force the entire cylinder towards
you, pulling more plastic wrap out of its source as you roll. Repeat 2-3
times, reforming as you go.

Using a tiny, clean, sharp object-like a sterilized needle or toothpick-poke
holes into the plastic anywhere air bubbles have formed.

Gripping the ends of the wrap again, squeeze the cylinder to remove air, then
pull the ends in opposite directions to tighten. Repeat this step at least three
times to ensure the contents are compressed nicely.

Roll and pull the cylinder a few times to wrap up even tighter.

Twist up the ends of the plastic, pushing the cylinder forward as you go to help
achieve tight twists.

While using one hand to keep the plastic taught, pull back on the cylinder with
the other. Roll the cylinder over a couple times.

Now grip both ends tightly and pull in opposite directions while squeezing the
contents towards the middle. Use a sharp object such as a needle or toothpick to
poke tiny holes anywhere you see air bubbles under the plastic. Repeat this step
at least three times to ensure the contents are compressed nicely.

Next, grip both ends of the plastic and roll the cylinder away from you to get
it extra tight.

Further twist the ends of plastic, and tie them off tightly with string.

Wrap the whole thing lightly with a little more plastic wrap to ensure the ends
stay tight.

NOTE: It can be confusing to try to read this procedure and follow along. Watch
the video for visual cues.

Allow Activa to set; cook

You can choose to either "cold set" (forms the strongest bond, but takes
longer), or "hot set" (forms a slightly weaker bond, but is a quicker process):

COLD SET (recommended): To create the strongest bond, cool the wrapped cylinder
in the fridge for at least six hours, and preferably 18-24. Then, cook it
in a water bath at 149 F / 65 C for one hour. This will yield a firm,
snappy patty.

HOT SET (shown in the video): If time is short, you can opt for a hot set. Cook
in a 131 F / 55 C water bath for 30-60 minutes, then increase the
temperature to 149 F / 65 C and cook for another 30 minutes.  

Reserve cold

Refrigerate or freeze until needed.

Check out that texture!

Slice patties; cook

Slice cylinder into patties and cook using desired method. They are best seared
or grilled.

TRY THIS:
Make it a Mushroom Burger

Fancy an awesomely earthy spin on this veggie burger, made with mushrooms
instead? We've got one for you right this way.

Enjoy!

Stack your veggie burger with fresh tomatoes and onions, a little melted cheese,
and a delicious bun, or try other toppings to make the burger of your dreams.
